Backoff on CONNECTION_CLOSE (#3157)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-transport.md

streams to immediately become closed; open streams can be assumed to be
implicitly reset.

After sending a CONNECTION_CLOSE frame, an endpoint immediately enters the
closing state.  During the closing period, an endpoint that sends a
CONNECTION_CLOSE frame SHOULD respond to any packet that it receives with

> another packet containing a CONNECTION_CLOSE frame, until it receives a packet

Reviewer: Why would it receive a packet with a CONNECTION_CLOSE frame? The peer won't send a CONNECTION_CLOSE in response to a CONNECTION_CLOSE, so this condition would only occur by pure coincidence.
I don't think we need any text describing this corner case.

Author: I agree that this should not be a SHOULD. But we already have a MAY. The current text states that _an endpoint MAY transition from the closing period to the draining period if it receives a CONNECTION_CLOSE frame_.

I think that the text here should be something along the lines of:
* During the closing period, an endpoint that sends a CONNECTION_CLOSE frame SHOULD respond to a packet that *can be AEAD-decrypted* with another packet containing a CONNECTION_CLOSE frame. That action *MAY* cease when it receives a packet containing a CONNECTION_CLOSE frame.

Author: Fixed in abfc00c.

> that contains a CONNECTION_CLOSE frame.  However, such an endpoint SHOULD limit

Reviewer 2: Time for a new paragraph.  And the "However, " doesn't really need to be here as this no longer relates to the former sentence in any contradictory way.

```suggestion
that contains a CONNECTION_CLOSE frame.

An endpoint SHOULD limit
```

But I *think* that your "However" here refers to the bit where the endpoint drops keys, which comes much later in the paragraph.  Is that right?

Author: Fixed in e36eb76.

CONNECTION_CLOSE frame.  For instance, an endpoint could progressively increase
the number of packets that it receives before sending additional packets or
increase the time between packets.  An endpoint that drops the packet protection

> keys when entering the closing period and therefore being unable to decrypt the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
keys when entering the closing period is unable to decrypt
```

Author: Thank you for the suggestions. I think they are covered by a45ded2.

> incoming packets MUST exponentially back off the frequency in which it sends

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
incoming packets so MUST exponentially back off the frequency in which it sends
```

> period and therefore being unable to decrypt the incoming packets MUST

Reviewer 2: My suggestion, which should be a new paragraph:

> An endpoint MAY drop packet protection keys when entering the closing period and send the same packet multiple times.  However, an endpoint that cannot process incoming packets will be unable to identify and discard invalid packets.  To avoid creating an unwitting amplification attack, an endpoint that drops packet protection keys MUST reduce the frequency with which it sends packets containing CONNECTION_CLOSE.

Reviewer 4: exponentially decrease?

Author: Thank you.

Applied @martinthomson's suggestion in a45ded2. I do not think "exponentially" is required here, there could be other approaches, such as limiting the emission of CONNECTION_CLOSE to once every PTO.

streams to immediately become closed; open streams can be assumed to be
implicitly reset.

After sending a CONNECTION_CLOSE frame, an endpoint immediately enters the
closing state.

During the closing period, an endpoint that sends a CONNECTION_CLOSE frame

> SHOULD respond to any incoming packet that can be decrypted with another packet

Reviewer 2: The "that can be decrypted" is new.  If you keep it, then it needs to be paired with something in the following paragraph that allows the endpoint to send the prebuilt packet in response to any received packet.

Author: Could you please elaborate a bit more?

My understanding is that we need "that can be decrypted." The reason we are adding MUST for endpoints that drop the keys when entering the closing state is because they cannot validate the packet using the keys. In this paragraph, we are talking about the flip side. That means that the endpoints MUST validate the incoming packets by unprotecting them.

Or are you specifically suggesting that we need to talk about how duplicates are to be handled?

Reviewer 2: This is just because you have a cleaner split between decrypting and not here.  It's OK.

containing a CONNECTION_CLOSE frame.  Such an endpoint SHOULD limit the number
of packets it generates containing a CONNECTION_CLOSE frame.  For instance, an
endpoint could progressively increase the number of packets that it receives
before sending additional packets or increase the time between packets.

An endpoint is allowed to drop the packet protection keys when entering the

> closing period ({{draining}}).  However, an endpoint without the packet

Reviewer 2: This probably blows the line length limit, but this is what I'm thinking.

```suggestion
closing period ({{draining}}) and send a packet containing a CONNECTION_CLOSE in
response to any UDP datagram that is received.  However, an endpoint without the packet
```

streams to immediately become closed; open streams can be assumed to be
implicitly reset.

After sending a CONNECTION_CLOSE frame, an endpoint immediately enters the
closing state.

During the closing period, an endpoint that sends a CONNECTION_CLOSE frame
SHOULD respond to any incoming packet that can be decrypted with another packet
containing a CONNECTION_CLOSE frame.  Such an endpoint SHOULD limit the number
of packets it generates containing a CONNECTION_CLOSE frame.  For instance, an
endpoint could progressively increase the number of packets that it receives
before sending additional packets or increase the time between packets.

An endpoint is allowed to drop the packet protection keys when entering the
closing period ({{draining}}).  However, an endpoint without the packet
protection keys cannot identify and discard invalid packets.  To avoid creating
an unwitting amplification attack, such endpoints MUST reduce the frequency with
which it sends packets containing a CONNECTION_CLOSE frame.

> To minimize the state that an endpoint maintains for a closing connection,

Reviewer 3: I think it makes sense to make this part of the preceding paragraph, since it pertains to cases when the keys are dropped?

Author: Nice catch! Adopted in 15898c5.
